write-up.md, before:

## Technical Interview

### 1.

To efficiently generate anagrams of input string `t`, I used itertools package and list comprehensions. The algorithm first generates a list of all possible character permutations of string letters given the input string. Then we loop over this list to check if any element is a substring of input `s`. The algorithm's efficiency is `O(n*n!)` where `n` is the length of input string `t`. For example, if `t` is `"ad"`, then generating anagrams is `O(2*2)= O(4)`.

### 2.

First, I convert the input string `a` into a list of its letters and generate substrings of input string by combining adjacent letters into a longer and longer elements. For example, if input `a` is `"93138"`, I generate the list of elements to look like `['93','931','9313','93138']`, then shorter list starting from the second element, such as `['31','313','3138']`, and so on. After I generate all the possible substrings, I check if a substring is in fact palindromic by comparing from the beginning and the end of the string and storing the string if it is a palindrom. I compare the size of the palindromatic substring to the newly found palindromic string, keep and return the longest.

The efficiency of the algorithm is `O(n<sup>3</sup>)`, where `n` is the length of input string because of the three `for` loops over `n` elements to generate all the possible substrings and check if they are palindromic. 

### 3.

To find the minimum spanning tree in a weighted undirected graph, I implement Prim's algorithm to traverse every node and edge at least once, following this [visualization](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Prim.html). I keep track of what nodes are visited, the weights and the path from one node to another. I loop over all the nodes until we visit all the vertices and edges. The weights are stored in an array and searching through the array for the edge with the minimum weight requires O (|V|<sup>2</sup>) runtime. 

#### 4.

To find the least common ancestor on a BST, I search through the input matrix to find all parents of input nodes and store them in two lists. The root node is appended last. Then I compare entries in the lists to output the earliest common node which is the least common ancestor of two nodes. The efficiency of the algorithm is O (n<sup>2</sup>) because of the two `for` loops over the rows and columns of the input matrix. 

### 5.

To find the element that is `m` elements from the end of a singly linked list, I loop over the linked list once to write the values of the elements to a Python list. Then I find the element's value based on the length of the list and the input `m` value. The efficiency of the algorithm is O(n) where n is the number of elements in the linked list.

Commit message:

add test cases for each question and space efficiency in the write-up

write-up.md, after:

## Technical Interview

### 1.

To efficiently generate anagrams of input string `t`, I used itertools package and list comprehensions. The algorithm first generates a list of all possible character permutations of string letters given the input string. Then we loop over this list to check if any element is a substring of input `s`. The algorithm's efficiency is `O(n*n!)` where `n` is the length of input string `t`. For example, if `t` is `"ad"`, then generating anagrams is `O(2*2)= O(4)`. In the worst case, the space efficiency is storing two lists with n! elements long to store anagrams of input string but the average case would be a shorter substring t anagrams which would take much less space than n! elements.

### 2.

First, I convert the input string `a` into a list of its letters and generate substrings of input string by combining adjacent letters into a longer and longer elements. For example, if input `a` is `"93138"`, I generate the list of elements to look like `['93','931','9313','93138']`, then shorter list starting from the second element, such as `['31','313','3138']`, and so on. After I generate all the possible substrings, I check if a substring is in fact palindromic by comparing from the beginning and the end of the string and storing the string if it is a palindrom. I compare the size of the palindromatic substring to the newly found palindromic string, keep and return the longest.

The efficiency of the algorithm is `O(n<sup>3</sup>)`, where `n` is the length of input string because of the three `for` loops over `n` elements to generate all the possible substrings and check if they are palindromic. The space efficiency of the algorithm requires storing a list of length n and two temporary lists of size n. So, space efficiency is also O(3n) which can be approximated as O(n).

### 3.

To find the minimum spanning tree in a weighted undirected graph, I implement Prim's algorithm to traverse every node and edge at least once, following this [visualization](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Prim.html). I keep track of what nodes are visited, the weights and the path from one node to another. I loop over all the nodes until we visit all the vertices and edges. The weights are stored in an array and searching through the array for the edge with the minimum weight requires O (|V|<sup>2</sup>) runtime, where V is the number of nodes in the graph. The algorithm requires keeping track of which nodes are known, their weights and the path to the neighbors for each node. I keep these values in three lists of size V. From the input dictionary, I make another list with nodes to loop through while updating the known list. To return a minimum spanning tree, I make a dictionary with at most V keys but on average, with less than V elements. So, space efficience is O(5*V) which can be approximated as O(V).

#### 4.

To find the least common ancestor on a BST, I search through the input matrix to find all parents of input nodes and store them in two lists. The root node is appended last. Then I compare entries in the lists to output the earliest common node which is the least common ancestor of two nodes. The efficiency of the algorithm is O (n<sup>2</sup>) because of the two `for` loops over the rows and columns of the input matrix. I make two lists to store input nodes' ancestors, which in the worst case is length (n-1). So, space efficiency is O(2n), which cab be approximated as O(n).

### 5.

To find the element that is `m` elements from the end of a singly linked list, I loop over the linked list once to write the values of the elements to a Python list. Then I find the element's value based on the length of the list and the input `m` value. The runtime efficiency of the algorithm is O(n) where n is the number of elements in the linked list. I store nodes' values in a list with size n. So, space efficiency is O(n).
